Last week, we focused
on using Power Query to
get and integrate data from
a variety of different sources.
This week, we will focus on
getting more familiar
with Query Editor
and seeing how we can use it to
perform data
transformation operations.
We're going to start by taking
some data that would
usually require a lot
of manual work to get into
a form that could be
used for analysis.
We're then going to use
Power Query to apply
transformations like filtering
out unnecessary rows,
removing duplicates,
and filling in
the blanks to get the data
into a usable format.
To complete the transformation,
we will see how Power
Query can perform
the amazing time-saving task
of unpivoting our data.
As the name suggests,
unpivoting data is
the reverse operation
of pivoting data.
When we pivot data,
we take every unique
occurrence of value in
a column and turn
it into a heading,
creating a short fat table,
which can be good to
present in a report.
When we unpivot, we take
those headings and turn them
back into values within a column,
creating a long skinny table
more suitable for doing analysis.
We will also look at how
we can use Power Query
to pivot and group
data and as we go,
we will look at some
common errors that
occur and how to troubleshoot
and correct them.
We wrap up the week by looking at
some fantastic new features
for transforming columns of data.
Because some of these are
not available in 2016,
we've actually provided two
videos for the last topic,
one to show the new features,
and one showing good
work-arounds for 2016 users.
We actually recommend
watching both.
To summarize, this week,
we will cover the
following topics,
applying a range of
transformations,
unpivoting data, pivoting
data in the Query Editor,
grouping data, and finally,
working with columns
and calculations.
It's going to be another
action-packed week.
Download those exercise
files and let's get started.